<!-- *********************
title: Typescript
toc: true
nav: rule
********************* -->
# TypeScript rules for Bazel

The TypeScript rules integrate the TypeScript compiler with Bazel.

## Alternatives

This package provides Bazel wrappers around the TypeScript compiler.

At a high level, there are three alternatives provided: `tsc`, `ts_project`, `ts_library`.
This section describes the trade-offs between these rules.

`tsc` is the raw TypeScript compiler published by the team at Microsoft.
Like any npm package that exposes a binary, rules_nodejs will generate an `index.bzl` file allowing
you to run `tsc`.

To use it, add the load statement `load("@npm//typescript:index.bzl", "tsc")` to your BUILD file.
Then call it, using the [`npm_package_bin`](Built-ins#npm_package_bin) documentation.

The only reason to use raw `tsc` is if you want to compile an opaque directory of `.ts` files and cannot enumerate them to Bazel.
(For example if the `.ts` files are generated by some tool).
This will produce an opaque directory of `.js` file outputs, which you won't be able to individually reference.
Any other use case for `tsc` is better served by using `ts_project`.

`ts_project` simply runs `tsc --project`, with Bazel knowing which outputs to expect based on the TypeScript compiler options, and with interoperability with other TypeScript rules via a Bazel Provider (DeclarationInfo) that transmits the type information.
It is intended as an easy on-boarding for existing TypeScript code and should be familiar if your background is in frontend ecosystem idioms.
Any behavior of `ts_project` should be reproducible outside of Bazel, with a couple of caveats noted in the rule documentation below.

`ts_library` is an open-sourced version of the rule used to compile TS code at Google.
It should be familiar if your background is in Bazel idioms.
It is very complex, involving code generation of the `tsconfig.json` file, a custom compiler binary, and a lot of extra features.
It is also opinionated, and may not work with existing TypeScript code. For example:

- Your TS code must compile under the `--declaration` flag so that downstream libraries depend only on types, not implementation. This makes Bazel faster by avoiding cascading rebuilds in cases where the types aren't changed.
- We control the output format and module syntax so that downstream rules can rely on them.

On the other hand, `ts_library` is also fast and optimized.
We keep a running TypeScript compile running as a daemon, using Bazel workers.
This process avoids re-parse and re-JIT of the >1MB `typescript.js` and keeps cached bound ASTs for input files which saves time.
We also produce JS code which can be loaded faster (using named AMD module format) and which can be consumed by the Closure Compiler (via integration with [tsickle](https://github.com/angular/tsickle)).

## Installation

Add a `devDependency` on `@bazel/typescript`

```sh
$ yarn add -D @bazel/typescript
# or
$ npm install --save-dev @bazel/typescript
```

Watch for any `peerDependency` warnings - we assume you have already installed the `typescript` package from npm.

Create a `BUILD.bazel` file in your workspace root. If your `tsconfig.json` file is in the root, use

```python
exports_files(["tsconfig.json"], visibility = ["//visibility:public"])
```

otherwise create an alias:

```python
alias(
    name = "tsconfig.json",
    actual = "//path/to/my:tsconfig.json",
)
```

Make sure to remove the `--noEmit` compiler option from your `tsconfig.json`. This is not compatible with the `ts_library` rule.

## User-managed npm dependencies

We recommend you use Bazel managed dependencies, but if you would like
Bazel to also install a `node_modules` in your workspace you can also
point the `node_repositories` repository rule in your `WORKSPACE` file to
your `package.json`.

```python
node_repositories(package_json = ["//:package.json"])
```

You can then run `yarn` in your workspace with:

```sh
$ bazel run @nodejs//:yarn_node_repositories
```

To use your workspace `node_modules` folder as a dependency in `ts_library` and
other rules, add the following to your root `BUILD.bazel` file:

```python
js_library(
    name = "node_modules",
    srcs = glob(
        include = [
          "node_modules/**/*.js",
          "node_modules/**/*.d.ts",
          "node_modules/**/*.json",
          "node_modules/.bin/*",
        ],
        exclude = [
          # Files under test & docs may contain file names that
          # are not legal Bazel labels (e.g.,
          # node_modules/ecstatic/test/public/中文/檔案.html)
          "node_modules/**/test/**",
          "node_modules/**/docs/**",
          # Files with spaces in the name are not legal Bazel labels
          "node_modules/**/* */**",
          "node_modules/**/* *",
        ],
    ),
    # Provide ExternalNpmPackageInfo which is used by downstream rules
    # that use these npm dependencies
    external_npm_package = True,
)

# Create a tsc_wrapped compiler rule to use in the ts_library
# compiler attribute when using user-managed dependencies
nodejs_binary(
    name = "@bazel/typescript/tsc_wrapped",
    entry_point = "@npm//:node_modules/@bazel/typescript/internal/tsc_wrapped/tsc_wrapped.js",
    # Point bazel to your node_modules to find the entry point
    data = ["//:node_modules"],
)
```

See the [dependencies docs](dependencies.html) for more information on managing npm dependencies with Bazel.

## Customizing the TypeScript compiler binary

An example use case is needing to increase the NodeJS heap size used for compilations.

Similar to above, you declare your own binary for running `tsc_wrapped`, e.g.:

```python
nodejs_binary(
    name = "tsc_wrapped_bin",
    entry_point = "@npm//:node_modules/@bazel/typescript/internal/tsc_wrapped/tsc_wrapped.js",
    templated_args = [
        "--node_options=--max-old-space-size=2048",
    ],
    data = [
        "@npm//protobufjs",
        "@npm//source-map-support",
        "@npm//tsutils",
        "@npm//typescript",
        "@npm//@bazel/typescript",
    ],
)
```

then refer to that target in the `compiler` attribute of your `ts_library` rule.

Note that `nodejs_binary` targets generated by `npm_install`/`yarn_install` can include data dependencies
on packages which aren't declared as dependencies. For example, if you use [tsickle](https://github.com/angular/tsickle) to generate Closure Compiler-compatible JS, then it needs to be a data dependency of `tsc_wrapped` so that it can be loaded at runtime.

## Usage

### Compiling TypeScript: `ts_library`

The `ts_library` rule invokes the TypeScript compiler on one compilation unit,
or "library" (generally one directory of source files).

Create a `BUILD` file next to your sources:

```python
package(default_visibility=["//visibility:public"])
load("//packages/typescript:index.bzl", "ts_library")

ts_library(
    name = "my_code",
    srcs = glob(["*.ts"]),
    deps = ["//path/to/other:library"],
)
```

If your ts_library target has npm dependencies you can specify these
with fine grained npm dependency targets created by the `yarn_install` or
`npm_install` rules:

```python
ts_library(
    name = "my_code",
    srcs = glob(["*.ts"]),
    deps = [
      "@npm//@types/node",
      "@npm//@types/foo",
      "@npm//foo",
      "//path/to/other:library",
    ],
)
```

You can also use the `@npm//@types` target which will include all
packages in the `@types` scope as dependencies.

If you are using user-managed npm dependencies, you can pass your `//:node_modules`
target defined in your root `BUILD.bazel` file to the deps of `ts_library`.
You'll also need to override the `compiler` attribute if you do this
as the Bazel-managed deps and user-managed cannot be used together
in the same rule.

```python
ts_library(
    name = "my_code",
    srcs = glob(["*.ts"]),
    deps = [
        "//path/to/other:library",
        "//:node_modules",
    ],
    compiler = "//:@bazel/typescript/tsc_wrapped",
)
```

To build a `ts_library` target run:

`bazel build //path/to/package:target`

The resulting `.d.ts` file paths will be printed. Additionally, the `.js`
outputs from TypeScript will be written to disk, next to the `.d.ts` files <sup>1</sup>.

Note that the `tsconfig.json` file used for compilation should be the same one
your editor references, to keep consistent settings for the TypeScript compiler.
By default, `ts_library` uses the `tsconfig.json` file in the workspace root
directory. See the notes about the `tsconfig` attribute in the [ts_library API docs].

> <sup>1</sup> The
> [declarationDir](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/compiler-options.html)
> compiler option will be silently overwritten if present.

[ts_library API docs]: http://tsetse.info/api/build_defs.html#ts_library

## Accessing JavaScript outputs

The default output of the `ts_library` rule is the `.d.ts` files.
This is for a couple reasons:

- help ensure that downstream rules which access default outputs will not require
  a cascading re-build when only the implementation changes but not the types
- make you think about whether you want the `devmode` (named `UMD`) or `prodmode` outputs

You can access the JS output by adding a `filegroup` rule after the `ts_library`,
for example

```python
ts_library(
    name = "compile",
    srcs = ["thing.ts"],
)

filegroup(
    name = "thing.js",
    srcs = ["compile"],
    # Change to es6_sources to get the 'prodmode' JS
    output_group = "es5_sources",
)

my_rule(
    name = "uses_js",
    deps = ["thing.js"],
)
```

## Serving TypeScript for development

This is now documented in the `@bazel/concatjs` package.

## Writing TypeScript code for Bazel

Bazel's TypeScript compiler has your workspace path mapped, so you can import
from an absolute path starting from your workspace.

`/WORKSPACE`:
```python
workspace(name = "myworkspace")
```

`/some/long/path/to/deeply/nested/subdirectory.ts`:
```javascript
import {thing} from 'myworkspace/place';
```

will import from `/place.ts`.


Since this is an extension to the vanilla TypeScript compiler, editors which use the TypeScript language services to provide code completion and inline type checking will not be able to resolve the modules. In the above example, adding
```json
"paths": {
    "myworkspace/*": ["*"]
}
```
to `tsconfig.json` will fix the imports for the common case of using absolute paths.
See [path mapping] for more details on the paths syntax.

Similarly, you can use path mapping to teach the editor how to resolve imports
from `ts_library` rules which set the `module_name` attribute.

### Notes

If you'd like a "watch mode", try [ibazel].

At some point, we plan to release a tool similar to [gazelle] to generate the
`BUILD` files from your source code.

[gazelle]: https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle
[ibazel]: https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-watcher
[path mapping]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/module-resolution.html#path-mapping
