packages/angular/README.md, before:

# Angular support for Bazel

This package is a replacement for parts of the deprecated @angular/bazel package previously maintained by the Angular team.

Currently, this only provides an Angular CLI Builder, which can execute Bazel when triggered by `ng build`, `ng test`, etc.
See https://angular.io/guide/cli-builder for more info about Builders.

This builder assumes you have already created Bazel configurations (WORKSPACE and BUILD files).
There is presently no tooling to generate these automatically that's supported by either Angular team or rules_nodejs maintainers.
See the `@bazel/create` package for a quickstart to creating a Bazel workspace, or look at examples in rules_nodejs.

To use it, you would just install this package (it doesn't hook into `ng add` because it has no schematics):

```sh
$ npm install --save-dev @bazel/angular
```

Then edit your `angular.json` to invoke Bazel. For example, to have `ng build` do `bazel build //:all` you would edit the `architect` block to have:

```json
"architect": {
  "build": {
    "builder": "@bazel/angular:build",
    "options": {
      "targetLabel": "//:all",
      "bazelCommand": "build"
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

docs(angular): the @bazel/angular package is moving out of rules_nodejs
It will be contributed to a community project that maintains other Angular CLI builders.
This is part of reducing scope in rules_nodejs, see #2892

packages/angular/README.md, after:

# Angular support for Bazel

## MOVING

**This package is moving from rules_nodejs to https://github.com/just-jeb/angular-builders. It will no longer be maintained in rules_nodejs and will be removed in the next major (5.0)**

This package is a replacement for parts of the deprecated @angular/bazel package previously maintained by the Angular team.

Currently, this only provides an Angular CLI Builder, which can execute Bazel when triggered by `ng build`, `ng test`, etc.
See https://angular.io/guide/cli-builder for more info about Builders.

This builder assumes you have already created Bazel configurations (WORKSPACE and BUILD files).
There is presently no tooling to generate these automatically that's supported by either Angular team or rules_nodejs maintainers.
See the `@bazel/create` package for a quickstart to creating a Bazel workspace, or look at examples in rules_nodejs.

To use it, you would just install this package (it doesn't hook into `ng add` because it has no schematics):

```sh
$ npm install --save-dev @bazel/angular
```

Then edit your `angular.json` to invoke Bazel. For example, to have `ng build` do `bazel build //:all` you would edit the `architect` block to have:

```json
"architect": {
  "build": {
    "builder": "@bazel/angular:build",
    "options": {
      "targetLabel": "//:all",
      "bazelCommand": "build"
    }
  }
}
```
