docs/Toolchains.md, before:

# Toolchains

API docs for [Toolchain](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/toolchains.html) support.

When you call `nodejs_register_toolchains()` in your `WORKSPACE` file it will setup a node toolchain for executing tools on all currently supported platforms.

If you have an advanced use-case and want to use a version of node not supported by this repository, you can also register your own toolchains.

## Registering a custom toolchain

To run a custom toolchain (i.e., to run a node binary not supported by the built-in toolchains), you'll need four things:

1) A rule which can build or load a node binary from your repository
   (a checked-in binary or a build using a relevant [`rules_foreign_cc` build rule](https://bazelbuild.github.io/rules_foreign_cc/) will do nicely).
2) A [`nodejs_toolchain` rule](Core.html#nodejs_toolchain) which depends on your binary defined in step 1 as its `node`.
3) A [`toolchain` rule](https://bazel.build/reference/be/platform#toolchain) that depends on your `nodejs_toolchain` rule defined in step 2 as its `toolchain`
   and on `@rules_nodejs//nodejs:toolchain_type` as its `toolchain_type`. Make sure to define appropriate platform restrictions as described in the
   documentation for the `toolchain` rule.
4) A call to [the `register_toolchains` function](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/globals#register_toolchains) in your `WORKSPACE`
   that refers to the `toolchain` rule defined in step 3.

Examples of steps 2-4 can be found in the [documentation for `nodejs_toolchain`](Core.html#nodejs_toolchain).

If necessary, you can substitute building the node binary as part of the build with using a locally installed version by skipping step 1 and replacing step 2 with:

2) A `nodejs_toolchain` rule which has the path of the system binary as its `node_path`

Commit message:

Introduce runtime_toolchain_type (#3859)
According to discussions in #3854 having two toolchains of the same type
for different things is troublesome. It's better to have separate
runtime as well as compile toolchains.

This commit creates a new runtime_toolchain_type and registers
toolchains without execution constraints for this type. Once merged,
rules_ts can start consuming the new toolchain type in its js_binary
rule to ensure the correct Node for the correct target environment is
selected.

Fixed [Bug]: Execution toolchain defined without
`target_compatible_with` makes it a candidate to selection

Fixes #3854
Work towards #3795

## PR Checklist

Please check if your PR fulfills the following requirements:

- [x] Tests for the changes have been added (for bug fixes / features)
- [x] Docs have been added / updated (for bug fixes / features)


## PR Type

What kind of change does this PR introduce?

<!-- Please check the one that applies to this PR using "x". -->

- [x] Bugfix
- [x] Feature (please, look at the "Scope of the project" section in the
README.md file)
- [x] Documentation content changes


## Does this PR introduce a breaking change?

- [ ] Yes
- [x] No

It tries to remain compatible and support existing consumers.

## Other information

This is an alternative to #3800.

docs/Toolchains.md, after:

# Toolchains

API docs for [Toolchain](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/main/toolchains.html) support.

When you call `nodejs_register_toolchains()` in your `WORKSPACE` file it will setup a node toolchain for executing tools on all currently supported platforms.
In `bzlmod` default toolchains are registered automatically when you depend on `rules_nodejs`.

There are two toolchain types:

1) The transpilation toolchain, which provides the Node runtime used to execute the transpiler (and type checker), as well as various helper tools and settings.
   (`@rules_nodejs//nodejs:toolchain_type`)
2) The Node runtime that executable Node outputs (e.g., js_binary) will run on.
   (`@rules_nodejs//nodejs:runtime_toolchain_type`)

See [//nodjes/BUILD.bazel](https://github.com/bazel-contrib/rules_nodejs/blob/main/nodejs/BUILD.bazel) for details.

If you have an advanced use-case and want to use a version of node not supported by this repository, you can also register your own toolchains.

## Registering a custom toolchain

To run a custom toolchain (i.e., to run a node binary not supported by the built-in toolchains), you'll need four things:

1) A rule which can build or load a node binary from your repository
   (a checked-in binary or a build using a relevant [`rules_foreign_cc` build rule](https://bazelbuild.github.io/rules_foreign_cc/) will do nicely).
2) A [`nodejs_toolchain` rule](Core.html#nodejs_toolchain) which depends on your binary defined in step 1 as its `node`.
3) Two [`toolchain` rules](https://bazel.build/reference/be/platform#toolchain) each depends on your `nodejs_toolchain` rule defined in step 2 as its `toolchain`
   and one on `@rules_nodejs//nodejs:toolchain_type` as its `toolchain_type` and the other one  `@rules_nodejs//nodejs:runtime_toolchain_type`.
   Make sure to define appropriate platform restrictions as described in the documentation for the `toolchain` rule.
4) A call to [the `register_toolchains` function](https://bazel.build/rules/lib/globals#register_toolchains) in your `WORKSPACE`
   that refers to the `toolchain` rule defined in step 3.

Examples of steps 2-4 can be found in the [documentation for `nodejs_toolchain`](Core.html#nodejs_toolchain).

If necessary, you can substitute building the node binary as part of the build with using a locally installed version by skipping step 1 and replacing step 2 with:

2) A `nodejs_toolchain` rule which has the path of the system binary as its `node_path`
